# Odf2fountain – Open Document to Fountain text converter

## Purpose:

Converts a word processing file in Oasis Open Document format
(LibreOffice, etc) into a .fountain file unto a word processing file.

## Licences:

This program is licenced under the [Apache 2.0
licence](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0). You may use it
only under the terms of the Apache 2.0 licence. This licence is
recognised as GPL compatible so shouldn’t create problems for people
wanting to reuse or extend the utilities.

Documentation: All original non-program files are licenced under the
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC
BY-SA 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) licence.

## Input:

Input files are standard LibreOffice writer documents formatted as a
screenplay script. If you base your document on the documents in the
[fountain2odf](https://github.com/juliaclement/screenwriting/tree/main/fountain2odf)
you have styles named Action, Character, Dialogue, etc matching the
fountain types with appropriate formatting. If you choose not to use
these styles, you need to indicate the style to use by setting the
capitalisation / number of leading spaces to let odt2fountain and the
receiving translator guess what it is working on.

## Usage:

After installing, this is used from the command line:

python3 odf2fountain.py \[-h\] \[--output OUTPUT\] \[--forcetypes\]
\[--extendedfountain\] \[--debug\] file \[files ...\]

positional arguments:

file/filesinput files space separated

options:

\-h, --helpshow help message and exit

\--output OUTPUT

output filename. Default = input filename.fountain

\--forcetypesStart lines with a special character from the [fountain
specification](https://fountain.io/syntax) rather than let the fountain
translator use heuristics to determine line type.

\--extendedfountain

Enable extra type forcing characters not supported by most fountain
translators. Currently just % for Dialogue

\--debug, -debug      provide developer information

### Setup

1.  Install dependencies, see below
2.  Download the program folder from github

## Dependencies

  - The latest version of python3

## Language

These documents and programs are in New Zealand English which does not
use American spelling. If you don’t like reading correctly spelled New
Zealand English, please don’t read them.

## Manifest:

odf2fountain.py -- the program

README.md -- this file

## To do:

1.  Writing some tests is required.

## Experimental

None of these tools are intended to do the complete job, but I am
prepared to consider requests for small changes that improve usability
and accept pull requests for enhancements.

I have no current plans to write installers, or Pip packages. For the
two most popular operating systems I lack the means to test created
installers. I would welcome requests from interested and technically
capable people who would like to join the project to create installers
for some or all platforms on an ongoing basis.
